TEM 1:
BUSINESS
Corporate Profile
Cognex Corporation was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1981. Our corporate headquarters are located at One Vision Drive, Natick, Massachusetts 01760 and our telephone number is (508) 650-3000.
Cognex is a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products that capture and analyze visual information in order to automate tasks, primarily in manufacturing processes, where vision is required. Machine vision is important for applications in which human vision is inadequate to meet requirements for size, accuracy, or speed, or in instances where substantial cost savings are obtained through the reduction of labor or improved product quality. Today, many types of manufacturing equipment require machine vision because of the increasing demands for speed and accuracy in manufacturing processes, as well as the decreasing size of items being manufactured.
Cognex has two operating divisions: the Modular Vision Systems Division (MVSD), based in Natick, Massachusetts, and the Surface Inspection Systems Division (SISD), based in Hayward, California. MVSD develops, manufactures, and markets modular vision systems and ID products that are used to automate the manufacture and tracking of discrete items, such as cellular phones, aspirin bottles, and automobile wheels, by locating, identifying, inspecting, and measuring them during the manufacturing or distribution process. SISD develops, manufactures, and markets surface inspection vision systems that are used to inspect the surfaces of materials processed in a continuous fashion, such as metal, paper, nonwoven, plastic, and glass, to ensure there are no flaws or defects on the surfaces. Historically, MVSD has been the source of the majority of the Company’s revenue, representing approximately 82% of total revenue in 2014. Financial information about these segments may be found in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, appearing in Part II - Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
What is Machine Vision?
Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, human vision has played an indispensable role in the process of manufacturing products. Human eyes did what no machines could do themselves: locating and positioning work, tracking the flow of parts, and inspecting output for quality and consistency. Today, however, the requirements of many manufacturing processes have surpassed the limits of human eyesight. Manufactured items often are produced too quickly or with tolerances too small to be analyzed by the human eye. In response to manufacturers’ needs, “machine vision” technology emerged, providing manufacturing equipment with the gift of sight. Machine vision systems were first widely embraced by manufacturers of electronic components who needed this technology to produce computer chips with decreasing geometries. However, advances in technology and ease-of-use, combined with the decreasing cost of implementing vision applications, have made machine vision available to a broader range of users.
1
Table of Contents

Machine vision products combine cameras with intelligent software to collect images and then answer questions about these images, such as:
Question
  
Description
  
Example
GUIDANCE
  
 
  
 
Where is it?
  
Determining the exact physical location and orientation of an object.
  
Determining the position of a printed circuit board so that a robot can automatically be guided to place electronic components.
IDENTIFICATION
  
 
  
 
What is it?
  
Identifying an object by analyzing its physical appearance or by reading a serial number or symbol.
  
Reading a two-dimensional barcode directly marked on an automotive airbag so that it can be tracked and processed correctly through manufacturing.
INSPECTION
  
 
  
 
How good is it?
  
Inspecting an object for flaws or defects.
  
Inspecting the paper that US currency is printed on.
GAUGING
  
 
  
 
What size is it?
  
Determining the dimensions of an object.
  
Determining the diameter of a bearing prior to final assembly.
Machine Vision Market
Cognex machine vision is primarily used in the manufacturing sector, where the technology is widely recognized as an important component of automated production and quality assurance. In this sector, Cognex serves three primary markets: factory automation, semiconductor and electronics capital equipment, and surface inspection.
Factory automation customers, who are included in the Company’s MVSD segment, purchase Cognex vision products and incorporate them into their manufacturing processes. Virtually every manufacturer can achieve better quality and manufacturing efficiency by using machine vision, and therefore, this market includes a broad base of customers across a variety of industries, including consumer electronics, automotive, consumer products, food and beverage, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals. The factory automation market also includes customers who purchase Cognex products for use outside of the assembly process, such as using ID products in logistics automation for package sorting and distribution. Sales to factory automation customers represented approximately 82% of total revenue in 2014 compared to 80% of total revenue in 2013.
Semiconductor and electronics capital equipment manufacturers, who are included in the Company’s MVSD segment, purchase Cognex vision products and integrate them into the automation equipment that they manufacture and then sell to their customers to either make semiconductor chips or assemble printed circuit boards. Demand from these capital equipment manufacturers has historically been highly cyclical, with periods of investment followed by downturn. This market, which represented a large portion of our business during the 1990’s, changed after the dot-com bubble burst in 2000. Customers shifted away from embedded machine vision systems containing specialized hardware as PC speeds increased. They first migrated to products containing mostly software with significantly less hardware content, and eventually began buying only the software portion of the system from Cognex. Although these software-only products have high gross margins, the average selling price is significantly lower than for a complete vision system. Sales to semiconductor and electronics capital equipment manufacturers represented approximately 6% of total revenue in 2014 compared to 7% of total revenue in 2013.
Surface inspection customers, who comprise the Company’s SISD segment, are manufacturers of materials processed in a continuous fashion, such as metal, paper, nonwoven, plastic, and glass. These customers need sophisticated machine vision to detect, classify, and analyze defects on the surfaces of those materials as they are being processed at high speeds. Surface inspection sales represented approximately 12% of total revenue in 2014 compared to 13% of total revenue in 2013.
In 2014, direct and indirect revenue from Apple Inc. accounted for 14% of total revenue. In 2013 and 2012, no customer accounted for greater than 10% of total revenue.
Business Strategy
Our goal is to expand our position as a leading worldwide provider of machine vision products. Sales to customers in the factory automation market represent the largest percentage of our total revenue, and we believe that this market provides the greatest potential for long-term, sustained revenue growth.

2
Table of Contents

In order to grow the factory automation market, we have invested in developing new products and functionality that make vision easier to use and more affordable, and therefore, available to a broader base of customers. This investment includes selective expansion into new industrial and commercial vision applications through internal development, as well as the acquisition of businesses and technologies. We have also invested in building a worldwide sales and support infrastructure in order to access more of the potential market for machine vision. This investment includes opening sales offices in emerging markets, such as China, India, Brazil, and Eastern Europe, where we believe many manufacturers can benefit from incorporating machine vision into their production processes, and developing strategic alliances with other leading providers of factory automation products.
Acquisitions and Divestitures
Our business strategy includes selective expansion into new machine vision applications through the acquisition of businesses and technologies. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to expand our product line, customer base, distribution network, and technical talent through acquisitions in the machine vision industry.
There have been no acquisitions of businesses or divestitures completed by the Company during the past five years. Management considers business acquisitions to be an important part of our growth strategy, and although we continue to actively seek out acquisition opportunities, we are selective in choosing businesses in the machine vision space that will not significantly dilute our operating margins.
Products
Cognex offers a full range of vision and ID products designed to meet customer needs at different performance and price points. Our products range from low-cost vision sensors that are easily integrated, to PC-based systems for users with more experience or more complex requirements. Our products also have a variety of physical forms, depending upon the user’s need. For example, customers can purchase vision software to use with their own camera and processor, or they can purchase a standalone unit that combines camera, processor, and software into a single package.
Vision Software
Vision software provides users with the most flexibility by combining the full general-purpose library of Cognex vision tools with the cameras, frame grabbers, and peripheral equipment of their choice. The vision software runs on the customer’s PC, which enables easy integration with PC-based data and controls. Applications based upon Cognex vision software perform a wide range of vision tasks, including part location, identification, measurement, assembly verification, and robotic guidance. Cognex's VisionPro® software offers an extensive suite of patented vision tools for advanced programming, while Cognex Designer allows customers to build complete vision applications with the simplicity of a graphical, flowchart-based programming environment. Cognex also offers a series of Displacement Sensors that provide three-dimensional inspection of products.
Vision Systems
Vision systems combine camera, processor, and vision software into a single, rugged package with a simple and flexible user interface for configuring applications. These general-purpose vision systems are designed to be easily programmed to perform a wide range of vision tasks including part location, identification, measurement, assembly verification, and robotic guidance. Cognex offers the In-Sight® product line of vision systems in a wide range of models to meet various price and performance requirements.
Vision Sensors
Unlike general-purpose vision systems that can be programmed to perform a wide variety of vision tasks, vision sensors are designed to deliver very simple, low-cost, reliable solutions for a limited number of common vision applications such as checking the presence and size of parts. Cognex offers the Checker® product line of vision sensors that performs a variety of single-purpose vision tasks.
ID Products
ID products quickly and reliably read codes (e.g., one-dimensional barcodes or two-dimensional data matrix codes) that have been applied to, or directly marked on, discrete items during the manufacturing process. Manufacturers of goods ranging from automotive parts, pharmaceutical items, aircraft components, and medical devices are increasingly using direct part mark (DPM) identification to ensure that the appropriate manufacturing processes are performed in the correct sequence and on the right parts. In addition, DPM is used to track parts from the beginning of their life to the end, and is also used in supply chain management and repair.
Cognex also offers applications in the automatic identification market outside of the manufacturing sector, such as using ID products in logistics automation for package sorting and distribution. As shipping volumes grow, more distribution centers are choosing to upgrade their traditional laser-based scanners to image-based barcode readers,

3
Table of Contents

which will cost-effectively increase package sorter efficiency and throughput by improving read rates. Cognex offers the DataMan® product line of ID readers that includes both hand-held and fixed-mount models.
Surface Inspection Systems
Surface inspection systems detect, identify, track, and report visual defects in any continuous material or process, such as metal, paper, nonwoven, plastic, and glass. The Smart View® Web Inspection System is targeted at high-speed applications that require extremely accurate surface defect detection and identification. The SmartAdvisor® Web Monitoring System is a process monitoring system that is used to track defects to their source and determine the root cause. These systems can be delivered as standalone or integrated solutions.
Research, Development, and Engineering
Cognex engages in research, development, and engineering (RD&E) to enhance our existing products and to develop new products and functionality to meet market opportunities. In addition to internal research and development efforts, we intend to continue our strategy of gaining access to new technology through strategic relationships and acquisitions where appropriate.
As of December 31, 2014, Cognex employed 319 professionals in RD&E, many of whom are software developers. Cognex’s RD&E expenses totaled $59,920,000 in 2014, $48,087,000 in 2013, and $41,549,000 in 2012, or approximately 12%, 14%, and 13% of revenue, respectively. We believe that a continued commitment to RD&E activities is essential in order to maintain or achieve product leadership with our existing products and to provide innovative new product offerings. In addition, we consider our ability to accelerate time-to-market for new products to be critical to our revenue growth. Therefore, we expect to continue to make significant RD&E investments in the future. At any point in time, we have numerous research and development projects underway. Although we target our RD&E spending to be between 10% and 15% of total revenue, this percentage is impacted by revenue levels.
Manufacturing and Order Fulfillment
Cognex’s MVSD products are manufactured utilizing a turnkey operation whereby the majority of component procurement, system assembly, and initial testing are performed by third-party contract manufacturers. Cognex’s primary contract manufacturer is located in Indonesia. The contract manufacturers use specified components and assembly/test documentation created and controlled by Cognex. After the completion of initial testing, a fully-assembled product from the contract manufacturers is routed to our facility in Cork, Ireland or Natick, Massachusetts, USA, where trained Cognex personnel load the software onto the product and perform quality control procedures. Finished product for customers in the Americas is then shipped from our Natick, Massachusetts facility, while finished product for customers outside of the Americas is shipped from our Cork, Ireland facility.
Cognex’s SISD products are manufactured and shipped from our Hayward, California facility. The manufacturing process at the Hayward facility consists of component procurement, system assembly, software loading, quality control, and shipment of product to customers worldwide.
Sales Channels and Support Services
Cognex sells its MVSD products through a worldwide direct sales force that focuses on the development of strategic accounts that generate or are expected to generate significant sales volume, as well as through a global network of integration and distribution partners. Our integration partners are experts in vision and complementary technologies that can provide turnkey solutions for complex automation projects using vision, and our distribution partners provide sales and local support to help Cognex reach the many prospects for our products in factories around the world. Cognex’s SISD products are primarily sold through a worldwide direct sales force since there are fewer customers in a more concentrated group of industries.
As of December 31, 2014, Cognex’s sales force consisted of 467 professionals, and our partner network consisted of approximately 522 active integrators and authorized distributors. Sales engineers call directly on targeted accounts and manage the activities of our partners within their territories in order to implement the most advantageous sales model for our products. The majority of our sales force holds engineering or science degrees. Cognex has sales and support personnel located throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia. In recent years, the Company has expanded its sales force in emerging markets, such as China, India, Brazil, and Eastern Europe, where we believe many manufacturers can benefit from incorporating machine vision into their production processes. In 2010, the Company established a Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise (WFOE) in Shanghai, China, and we began to sell to our Chinese customers through this new entity in 2011. The WFOE is able to accept payment from Chinese customers in Yuan, also known as Renminbi, which we believe allows us to reach more of the potential market for machine vision throughout Mainland China.

4
Table of Contents

Sales to customers based outside of the United States represented approximately 70% of total revenue in 2014 compared to approximately 67% of total revenue in 2013. In 2014, approximately 42% of our total revenue came from customers based in Europe, 9% from customers based in Japan, and 19% from customers based in other regions outside the United States. Sales to customers based in Europe are predominantly denominated in Euros, sales to customers based in Japan are predominantly denominated in Yen, and sales to customers based in other regions are denominated in U.S. Dollars and Chinese Yuan for sales within Mainland China. Financial information about geographic areas may be found in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, appearing in Part II - Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Cognex’s MVSD service offerings include maintenance and support, training, and consulting services. Maintenance and support programs include hardware support programs that entitle customers to have failed products repaired, as well as software support programs that provide customers with application support and software updates on the latest software releases. Application support is provided by technical support personnel located at Cognex regional offices, as well as by field service engineers that provide support at the customer’s production site. Training services include a variety of product courses that are available at Cognex’s offices worldwide, at customer facilities, and on computer-based tutorials, video, and the internet. Cognex provides consulting services that range from a specific area of functionality to a completely integrated vision application or installed ID application.
Cognex’s SISD service offerings include maintenance and support and training services similar to those provided by MVSD, as well as installation services. The installation services group supervises the physical installation of the hardware at the customer location, configures the software application to detect the customer’s defects, validates that the entire integrated system with the peripheral components is functioning according to the specifications, and performs operator training.
Intellectual Property
We rely on the technical expertise, creativity, and knowledge of our personnel, and therefore, we utilize patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection to maintain our competitive position and protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. While our intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, copyright, or other intellectual property right.
As of December 31, 2014, Cognex had been granted, or owned by assignment, 403 patents issued worldwide and had another 330 patent applications pending worldwide. Cognex has used, registered, or applied to register a number of trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries. Cognex’s trademark and servicemark portfolio includes various registered marks, including, among others, Cognex®, VisionPro®, In-Sight®, Checker®, DataMan®, Smart View®, and SmartAdvisor®, as well as many common-law marks.
Compliance with Environmental Provisions
Cognex’s capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position are not materially affected by compliance with federal, state, and local environmental provisions which have been enacted or adopted to regulate the distribution of materials into the environment.
Competition
The machine vision market is fragmented and Cognex’s competitors are typically other vendors of machine vision systems, controllers, and components; manufacturers of image processing systems, sensors, and components; and system integrators. In addition, in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market, and with respect to machine builders in the factory automation market, Cognex competes with the internal engineering departments of current or prospective customers. In the identification and logistics market, Cognex competes with manufacturers of automatic identification systems. Any of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than Cognex. Although we consider Cognex to be one of the leading machine vision companies in the world, reliable estimates of the machine vision market and the number of competitors are not available.
Cognex’s ability to compete depends upon our ability to design, manufacture, and sell high-quality products, as well as our ability to develop new products and functionality that meet evolving customer requirements. The primary competitive factors affecting the choice of a machine vision or ID system include vendor reputation, product functionality and performance, ease of use, price, and post-sales support. The importance of each of these factors varies depending upon the specific customer’s needs.

5
Table of Contents

Backlog
As of December 31, 2014, backlog, which includes deferred revenue, totaled $62,113,000, compared to $49,677,000 as of December 31, 2013. Backlog reflects customer purchase orders for products scheduled for shipment primarily within 60 days at MVSD and six months at SISD. Although MVSD accepts orders from customers with requested shipment dates that are within 60 days, orders typically ship within one week of order placement. The level of backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of future revenue. Delivery schedules may be extended and orders may be canceled at any time subject to certain cancellation penalties.
Employees
As of December 31, 2014, Cognex employed 1,322 persons, including 684 in sales, marketing, and service activities; 319 in research, development, and engineering; 150 in manufacturing and quality assurance; and 169 in information technology, finance, and administration. Of the Company’s 1,322 employees, 696 are based outside of the United States. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe that our employee relations are good.
Available Information
Cognex maintains a website on the World Wide Web at www.cognex.com. We make available, free of charge, on our website in the “Company” section under the caption “Investor Information” followed by “Financial Information” and then “SEC FiIings,” our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Cognex’s reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Information contained on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 1A:
RISK FACTORS

