ITEM  1.
BUSINESS
Overview
We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, advanced electric vehicle powertrain components and stationary energy storage systems. We have established our own network of sales and service centers and Supercharger stations globally to accelerate the widespread adoption of electric vehicles.  We believe our vehicles, electric vehicle engineering expertise, and business model differentiates us from incumbent automobile manufacturers.

We are currently producing and selling our second vehicle, the Model S sedan.  Model S is a four door, five-passenger premium sedan that offers exceptional performance, functionality and attractive styling. Model S inherited many of the electric powertrain innovations we introduced with our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster.  We commenced deliveries of Model S in June 2012 and as of December 31, 2014 we have delivered almost 57,000 Model S vehicles worldwide. Since its launch, Model S has won several awards, including the prestigious Motor Trend Car of the Year for 2013. Surveys by Consumer Reports gave Model S the highest customer satisfaction score of any car in the world in 2013 and gave Tesla Service the best overall satisfaction rating in the entire automotive industry in 2015. Model S also earned the highest safety rating in the United States by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.  We have continued to improve Model S by introducing performance, all-wheel drive dual motor, autopilot options, and free over-the-air software updates.  

We anticipate commencing customer shipments of our third vehicle, the Model X crossover, in the third quarter of 2015.  This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as our all-wheel drive dual motor system and fast 0 to 60 miles per hour acceleration. After the Model X, our goal is to introduce the Model 3, a lower priced sedan designed for the mass market, in 2017.

The commercial production of fully electric vehicles that meets consumers’ range and performance expectations requires substantial design, engineering, and integration work on almost every system of our vehicles.  Our design and vehicle engineering capabilities, combined with the technical advancements of our powertrain system, have enabled us to design and develop electric vehicles that we believe overcome the design, styling, and performance issues that have historically limited broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles. As a result, we believe our customers enjoy several benefits, including:

